program: A program is a set of instructions given to CPU to perform a particular task 

we are giving the instructions in some type of english words
CPU can understand only Binary language(01010111)

we need to convert english laguage to binary language 
compiler and interpreter, This tools are used to convert to Binary laguage

The language which uses compiler to convert to binary/compiled/byte language programming laguage

uses of interpreter is nothing scripting 

If I had program, I should be able to execute it in windows 64/32, linux 32/64, mac 32/64 then platform independent 

If it is platform dependent, I need more number of employees

I have deveoped an application like VLC player. I want to sell it.

If I provide complete SC to customer, If my customer is programming expert
he will go through the code, he will resolve the bugs(issues/errors).
After resolving the bugs, he will release a new product into market saying myplayer 

I can use python as a programming/scripting language

programming language(compiler): C, C++, Java, python 
scripting laguage(interpreter): python, perl, vb scripting, shell scripting etc.

Why/when should I prefer python than other languages 

It completely depends upon python features:

Open source:Free to use, we can develop application and sell them
we can get source code and modify it in our local environment.little Lack of security, where developers/security team need to spend some extra time to implement security features

MS office came from open office(open source) with extra features included by MS
RHEL linux machine came from Cent OS linux with extra security and enterprise support 

web development:
I had a customer, who need a website and will 15000 to me for developing website 
.net (non open source ) I don't write HTML code here because everything is drag and drop. It will take for development ---> salary 2k, infrastructure 1k and license 5k
python: 2 months ---> salaries: 4k and infrastructure for 2k
Java: 3 months 
using 2 employees whose salaries are 1K per month 

Standard library:
why is this an important factor 
why python is only being used in Machine learning/DS, why not java ---> liraries
MC are already in python and they are available
 
 
 Easy to read/understand/maintain/development 
 In case of startups 
 notice period is 90 days:
 I resigned my job. After resignation I need to serve my notice period 
 30 days. After 30 days the new person is able to replace old person.
 
 embeddable/extendable:
		Is C is more efficient or Java is more efficient 
		C provides 95% of effiency
		Java provides 90%
		C implements 84% of security
		Java implements 92% of security 
	python can be integrated with other languages 
	 Java+python ---> jython
	 c+python  ----> cython  --> python interpreter(not C compiler)
	 .net+python ----> ironpython 

pandas, numpy, sklearn, keras, tensorflow(google)

Identifiers
	Naming convention of python object. python object can be variable Name/ Function Name / class Name/ anything in the python.
Rules of identifiers:
	1. It should contain only numbers, alphabets and _
	2. It should not start with numbers 
	3. It should not contain only numbers 
	4. Length of the Name: length of the name can be infinite but it always recommended to use valid names
	5. using the predefined as identifiers: it's not recommended
	6. we cannot use keywords as identifiers
		English language, cat dog elephant etc. and also is, were, etc.
		By showing cat, can I say it as an  elephant.
		In programming languages also, we will have some reversed words.
	
variable and data types:
	Our target is to complete variables, datatypes in depth, loops and conditional statements by the end of next 


variables, datatypes and operators

variable: 
a = 10
Named memory location. alias named memory location. 
A variable is used to refer a memory location where data is stored

declaration of variable
single variable single value
single variable multiple values
multiple variables multiple values 
multiple variables single values 

Datatype: 
	It tells what type of data has been stored in memory location and what are the operations you can perform on that 
	
	python is a dynamic typing programming language 
	
	int a = 10; ---> whenever you are declaring a variable, you are specifying the data type
	float f = 20.5;


 
	 

	
 


